Talk about what your team
learned about this blueprint
and the length of time that Israel
had to review these plans and why
it wasn't listened to.
So somewhere around along
2022, Israeli
intelligence was able to get
the plan for the Hamas attack.
It codenamed it was coordinated
by Israeli intelligence,
the wall of Jericho, the Jericho Wall.
Any details?
Many, many,
many different
details of how
the attack is going to take place
exactly as it took place
more than a year after?
This could be an intelligence
victory for for Israel.
But Israeli analysts,
some of the
senior of Israeli intelligence,
saw the plan as more of the goal,
as a compass
for the building of the forces
where Hamas wants to be,
but not with Hamas.
So while having that plan, they saw this
as something that Hamas is far from
being capable of doing.
They believe that Hamas has
doesn't have the ability
to conduct such a massive operation.
We are talking about,
according to that plan,
to break the fence
between Gaza and Israel
in 60 different places.
Israel believed they could do that
maybe in two places.
They called for the bombing
and destruction of the cameras
instantly the same simultaneously,
the beginning of the attack
of the cameras, the automatic guns,
the communication centers,
and then the ramping of the division
headquarters, the Gaza
division headquarters
that is in charge
of protecting the front,
the main in July of this year.
So a year after
an analyst that was reviewing
intercepts about Hamas military exercises
wrote a letter,
an e-mail,
an exchange of email, encrypted e-mail.
She comes from a 200, the Israeli NSA,
the equivalent to the American embassy.
And she described the drill
and she said that
she believes
that Hamas is narrowing the gap between
the wall of Jericho player
and Israel capabilities.
And there was a pushback from
senior most senior
intelligence officer said that told her
this is an imaginary plan.
They cannot do that.
And so here is the tragedy for Israeli
intelligence, for Israeli public,
instead of positioning.
It's not just an intelligence debate.
If Israel
if the Israeli Defense Forces
would adopt this plan,
something that Hamas can do
even without any connection
to the intention of the US
decision to execute,
this is something that the analyst
could say
she did not push back
on the Israeli wisdom
that time,
that time leading three four months ago
that Hamas doesn't want to go to war.
But if the Israeli defense establishment
had the knowledge
that Hamas is capable
of launching such an attack,
that would put a totally different size
of forces on the border.
The outcome could be very different.
Also, according to your
reporting, this analyst,
this woman analyst, we saw
an exercise that Hamas
undertook a trial run
and raised red flags, again, saying
this looks
very much like the Wall of Jericho plan
that we discussed before
and again,
which seem to have been dismissed,
not just that she even has,
she says here's an interesting
bit of information,
the same quote from the Koran
serial murder
that begins with which the
this detailed plan for action,
the still plan for attack
starts with it's call for this.
This is something about Moses,
but it is
it's about this surprise
entry through a gate.
I think it's not the case
that Hamas picked this up.
The people participating,
the Hamas gunmen
participating in that drill
were using the same quote, the same quote
is now part of the emblem of Hamas
used in all Hamas publications
in the statement incidents
since the since the attack.
As you know, the Israeli government
posted online on X last month,
quote, Contrary to the false
claims, under no circumstances
and at no stage was Prime Minister
Netanyahu warned of Hamas's
war intentions.
They went on to say at
no point was a warning given
to Prime Minister Netanyahu
on Hamas's intention to start a war.
On the contrary,
all the defense officials,
including the heads
of the intelligence directorate
and the Shin Bet, assess
that Hamas was deterred.
Do you know if the prime minister
was in fact informed?
Because it sounds like
from your reporting
that this document
was was widely
disseminated in intelligence
in military circles?
Yes.
So we don't
know if Prime Minister Netanyahu got the
was presented with this document.
We do know
and we this comes from previous reporting
that he was warned against again
and again and again.
And it details
at least
four different letters
throughout the last year that the members
of the so-called
axis of resistance, Iran, Hamas,
Hezbollah,
see Israeli weakness
and they might decide to use
what they believe
a window of opportunity to attack.
Yeah, this document was sent to many
and I think this is a good point
for further reporting about who saw
and who decided
to continue
with this so-called conception,
this the
the ability to believe
this Hamas is good thing.
Ronen Bergman, it's incredible reporting.
Thank you.
More now on the forces at play tonight.
Joining us is Alex Marquardt
and Oren Liebermann,
also Axios reporter
and CNN political
and foreign policy analyst.
Barak revealed.
And CNN
military analyst, retired Army
Lieutenant General Mark Hertling.
Brock, first of all,
how damning is this report
for the Israeli government?
Well, I think
this this is part of a series of stories
that appeared in the Israeli
press over the last week or two weeks
that what happens behind them is a fight
between the Israeli
intelligence community or parts of it,
especially the military intelligence
and the political echelon with each side
leaking stuff
that are more comfortable to him
when it comes to everything
that's happened in the year
before the war.
And, you know, a lot of people in Israel
think that the reason that now
we hear about those documents
is because it's
very comfortable for Benjamin
Netanyahu and his people.
And they're trying
to put those things out
in order to build a case
for the inquiry committee
that most likely is going to be formed
on the day after the war. I mean,
as you know,
intelligence officials,
military officials
have accepted responsibility.
Benjamin Netanyahu has not in any form
accepted any responsibility
for the attack on on October 7th.
He had very early on,
right before the the
the operation in Gaza.
He had tweeted out a criticism
of the heads of the military
and intelligence and then quickly
withdrew that tweet
and apologized for for that.
But it certainly seems like
this is something
he wants out there.
No doubt.
By the way,
there was a huge intelligence failure.
It's not that it's not true.
There was a huge intelligence failure.
I just
you know, in one of the emails,
this analyst from Israel
Signals Intelligence Agency,
a 201
of the headlines of one of her emails
that was warning from
this plan
was the headline was
Death in the Kibbutz.
Okay.
How symbolic is that?
Several months ago, death
in the kibbutz, you wrote.
So there was a huge intelligence failure,
not the third level,
but the higher level of the people
who were actually making the decisions.
And that their job is to actually warn
that political echelon
of what was going on.
But at the same time, Netanyahu did
get a lot of other warnings
that had to do also with,
you know, the general situation
where Israel's enemies were planning to
gang up on it
because of the domestic crisis over
Netanyahu's
judicial overhaul in the months
before the war.
Alex, what do you make of this report?
How are U.S. officials likely to react?
Well, Anderson,
I really do
think it goes to this theme
that we've been reporting on
for quite some time
of the underestimation
of what Hamas was capable of doing
and certainly what they intended to do.
You and I have talked
about intelligence
reports and assessments
both on the Israeli
and the American side
in the days
leading up to October 7th
that indicated that Hamas
might do something.
Now, what
that something was expected
to be was what we had seen
before in previous rounds of fighting
that were frankly rather
inconsequential for Israel.
And that would have been
rockets being fired across the border,
which then likely
would have been intercepted
by the Iron Dome,
which is exactly what we're seeing
on our screen right there.
But there was no sense
that Hamas would be able to break
through the friends
fence and carry out
the types of massacres that they did.
There is
acknowledgment
and public
acknowledgment here in the U.S.
from intelligence officials
and Biden administration officials
that this was
purely an Israeli intelligence failure.
American intelligence officials
are not taking any responsibility
for this.
They are laying it
at the feet of the intelligence
apparatus and security apparatus
in Israel.
Essentially, the U.S.
has been so focused on China
and on Russia and Ukraine
that they just don't spend a lot of time
thinking about Hamas
and other Palestinian militant groups.
Now, will that change going forward?
That remains to be seen.
We've certainly seen U.S.
intelligence playing a much bigger role
during this conflict with drones
and other kinds of signals
intelligence gathering.
But in their minds,
this is an Israeli intelligence failure.
I think most will tell you
that Netanyahu
is not expected to survive this.
But there's also an expectation that
the heads of the intelligence agencies,
there's going to be a reckoning.